[EDITS}W-11957883-VPN-risk-editorial=review (#649)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: cloudhub-1/modules/ROOT/Edits/vpn-high-availability.adoc

= Anypoint VPN High Availability
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: runtime-manager::vpc-high-availability.adoc,

> Your VPN connection consists of two VPN tunnels, each terminating in a different Availability Zone, to provide increased availability to your VPC. During a mandatory upgrade, AWS may briefly disable one of the two tunnels of your VPN connection. When you configure your customer gateway, configure both tunnels for redundancy. When one tunnel becomes unavailable (for example, down for maintenance), AWS automatically routes network traffic to the other available tunnel for that specific VPN connection. When AWS performs updates on one VPN tunnel, they set a lower outbound multi-exit discriminator (MED) value on the other tunnel to ensure the failover.  AWS Site-to-Site VPN https://aws.amazon.com/vpn/site-to-site-vpn-sla/[SLA] also requires two VPN endpoints for each connection.  Redundant Anypoint VPN tunnel configuration prevents a significantly higher risk of MuleSoft service downtime during the AWS auto patching window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your VPN connection consists of two VPN tunnels that terminate in different Availability Zones to provide increased availability to your VPC. During a mandatory upgrade, AWS might briefly disable one of the two tunnels of your VPN connection. 

When you configure your customer gateway, configure both tunnels for redundancy. When one tunnel becomes unavailable (for example, it is down for maintenance), AWS automatically routes network traffic to the other available tunnel for that specific VPN connection. When AWS performs updates on one VPN tunnel, it sets a lower outbound multi-exit discriminator (MED) value on the other tunnel to ensure failover.  

The AWS Site-to-Site VPN https://aws.amazon.com/vpn/site-to-site-vpn-sla/[SLA] requires two VPN endpoints for each connection.  Having redundant Anypoint VPN tunnels configured helps to prevent MuleSoft service downtime during the AWS auto-patching window.
```

> To ensure your applications and related operations are tolerant to Anypoint VPN updates, issues, or individual Customer Gateway failures, implement High Availability with redundant Anypoint VPN connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that your applications and related operations can handle Anypoint VPN updates, issues and individual customer gateway failures, implement High Availability with redundant Anypoint VPN connections.
```

Each Anypoint VPN connection consists of two endpoints, providing High Availability (HA) on the MuleSoft side by default.

== Prerequisites

> * Sufficient entitlement for each VPN connection.

Reviewer: Remove the periods in this list. These are not complete sentences.

* Two VPN endpoints using different public IP addresses.
* Two VPN connections in Runtime Manager.

== Configure High Availability with Anypoint VPN

> The following example shows a High Availability VPN topology using a single Anypoint VPC and two VPN connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a High Availability VPN topology that uses a single Anypoint VPC and two VPN connections.
```

> A MuleSoft Virtual Private Gateway (VGW) supports one Anypoint VPC association, but it supports up to 10 VPN connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A MuleSoft Virtual Private Gateway (VGW) supports one Anypoint VPC association and up to 10 VPN connections.
```

> You can locate your VPN Gateways in the same data center, or in different physical locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can locate your VPN Gateways in the same data center or in different physical locations.
```

To eliminate all single points of failure, the two customer gateways should be in different data centers, and preferably in different cities. Ideally, use your Disaster Recovery location for the second gateway.

image:vpn-ha-topology.png[VPN High Availability Topology]

> Use BGP routing to advertise the same routes via VPN-1 and VPN-2. See https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/Anypoint-VPN-Path-Selection-using-BGP-Routing[Anypoint VPN Path Selection using BGP Routing] for instructions on how to control path selection via the routing protocol.

Reviewer: If you can, it is better to flip the text of see links so that the user knows what the link will do before seeing the link itself:

For instructions about controlling path selection via the routing protocol, see...

> In this scenario, the VPN Gateways are configured to prefer: VPN-1 Tunnel-1, then VPN-1 Tunnel-2, then VPN-2 Tunnel-1, and finally VPN-2 Tunnel-2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario, the VPN Gateways are configured to prefer VPN-1 Tunnel-1, then VPN-1 Tunnel-2, then VPN-2 Tunnel-1, and finally VPN-2 Tunnel-2.
```

> This configuration produces an automatic failover to another tunnel, and to another VPN in the event of a VPN connectivity issue. This makes the Anypoint VPN solution more resilient and robust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration produces an automatic failover to another tunnel and another VPN in the event of a VPN connectivity issue. This makes the Anypoint VPN solution more resilient and robust.
```

High Availability VPN connections also support static routing, in which you establish a VPN-2 to work as a redundant, standby connection in the event of a failure with VPN-1.

== See Also

* xref:vpn-create-arm.adoc[Create an Anypoint VPN Connection]
* xref:vpn-downtime-risk.adoc[Anypoint VPN Downtime Risk]

> * https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpn/latest/s2svpn/vpn-redundant-connection.html[Using Redundant Site-to-Site VPN Connections to Provide failover^]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpn/latest/s2svpn/vpn-redundant-connection.html[Using Redundant Site-to-Site VPN Connections to Provide Failover^]
```

* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpn/latest/s2svpn/disaster-recovery-resiliency.html[Continue to Have Redundant Pair of VPNs as Well^]

> * https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-Calculate-VPC-and-VPN-License-Requirements[How to Calculate VPC and VPN License Requirements^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-Calculate-VPC-and-VPN-License-Requirements[How to Calculate VPC and VPN License Requirements^]
```

= Anypoint VPN High Availability
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: runtime-manager::vpc-high-availability.adoc,

Your VPN connection consists of two VPN tunnels that terminate in different Availability Zones to provide increased availability to your VPC. During a mandatory upgrade, AWS might briefly disable one of the two tunnels of your VPN connection. 

When you configure your customer gateway, configure both tunnels for redundancy. When one tunnel becomes unavailable (for example, it is down for maintenance), AWS automatically routes network traffic to the other available tunnel for that specific VPN connection. When AWS performs updates on one VPN tunnel, it sets a lower outbound multi-exit discriminator (MED) value on the other tunnel to ensure failover.  

The AWS Site-to-Site VPN https://aws.amazon.com/vpn/site-to-site-vpn-sla/[SLA] requires two VPN endpoints for each connection.  Having redundant Anypoint VPN tunnels configured helps to prevent MuleSoft service downtime during the AWS auto-patching window.

> To ensure that your applications and related operations can handle Anypoint VPN updates, issues and individual customer gateway failures, implement High Availability with redundant Anypoint VPN connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that your applications and related operations can handle Anypoint VPN updates, issues, and individual customer gateway failures, implement High Availability with redundant Anypoint VPN connections.
```
